Installing d2x on Windows
-------------------------

Unzip the binary release (d2x-x.x.x_mingw.zip), placing the files in
your descent2 directory (C:\GAMES\DESCENT2 by default)

You will also need the SDL and SDL_image runtime libraries.
Get SDL-1.2.x-win32.zip from here:
http://www.libsdl.org/download-1.2.php
And get SDL_image-1.2.x-win32.zip from here:
http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image/

Unzip these files and place the DLLs in your descent2 directory, or
you can place them in your system directory if you want to use them
with programs other than d2x.
See below for data installation.


Installing d2x on MacOS X
-------------------------

I guess we need to figure out the binary distribution first, eh?


Base Data Installation
----------------------

In addition to d2x, you need some data files to play.
In Windows or DOS, they go in the same directory as the d2x binary
(C:\GAMES\DESCENT2 by default).  Similarly for Mac OS 9.
This can be overridden (see below).

On unix, these files usually go into a shared data directory
(/usr/local/share/games/d2x by default).
They can also go in $HOME/.d2x.

Files created by D2X (eg. saved games) can go in an arbitrary user
directory, set with the -userdir option on the command line or in a
settings file (d2x.ini by default).  Data files are searched for in this
directory first.  For Unix, the user directory defaults to $HOME/.d2x.

The settings file goes in the same directory as the binary, but an
additional one with more options can go in the user directory.  An
additional settings file cannot override settings in the first, however
this settings file only complements the original Descent preferences file.

Data files can go in an arbitrary directory specified with the -hogdir
option.

The base install depends on which version of the datafiles you have.
d2x currently supports just about any version of Descent II, and can
use almost any version of Descent I as an add-on.

Place these files into your shared data dir:

Full Version (PC or Mac):
descent2.ham
descent2.hog
descent2.s11
descent2.s22
alien1.pig
alien2.pig
fire.pig
groupa.pig
ice.pig
water.pig

If you want movies, place the .mvl files in your shared data dir:
intro-h.mvl and/or intro-l.mvl
other-h.mvl and/or other-l.mvl
robots-h.mvl and/or robots-l.mvl
The mvl files from the Mac version will not work.  They are in a
different format!

OEM Version (Destination: Quartzon):
descent2.ham
descent2.hog
descent2.s11
descent2.s22
fire.pig
groupa.pig
ice.pig
water.pig

If you want movies, place the .mvl files in your shared data dir:
intro-l.mvl
other-l.mvl
robots-h.mvl and/or robots-l.mvl

PC Shareware:
d2demo.ham
d2demo.hog
d2demo.pig

Mac Shareware:
d2demo.ham
d2demo.hog
d2demo.pig
descent2.s11
exit.ham
d2.mn2


Add-on Mission Installation
---------------------------

d2x should be able to play any missions for Descent I or Descent II,
including the original Descent I mission (Descent: First Strike)

In order to play any add-on missions, you need to have a full set of
textures.  That is, your base installation above must be the "Full
Version", the "OEM Version", or the "Mac Shareware" version.

To install an additional mission, just place the .hog and the .msn or
.mn2 file into your missions directory.  d2x will search recursively for
missions (i.e. there can be folders within folders, containing missions).
The missions directory can be inside the system-wide data dir, or your user 
dir.  d2x will look in both places.

To install the original Descent I mission:
Place descent.hog into your data dir.

d2x tries to make Descent I levels look as close to the original as
possible, using just Descent II textures. However, if d2x finds
a .pig file from Descent I (except PC shareware and 1.0 versions)
installed in the data dir, it is able to improve the originality
by reading textures from there (except for animated textures).


Vertigo Installation
--------------------

Vertigo consists of both netgame enhancements (codenamed HOARD) and an
additional mission.  To install HOARD, place hoard.ham in your data
dir.  To play the vertigo mission, place d2x.hog and d2x.mn2 in your
mission dir.
If you want the movies that go with the vertigo mission, place
d2x-h.mvl and/or d2x-l.mvl in your data dir.


Notes
-----

In unix, all filenames must be in _lower case_. It's important.

It is not necessary to run the D2 setup program to extract the files
you need, just use unarj to extract the files from descent2.sow on the
cd.

If you use the mac demo data files, and they are not auto-detected
(colors come out wrong), use the -macdata switch.

If your computer has performance problems playing the movies, you can
tell it to play the low resolution versions by setting MovieHires=0 in
your descent.cfg file.
You can also override this setting by passing the -lowresmovies switch
or by deleting all *-h.mvl files.
